# One-for-loop-3D-traversal-with-arithmetic-operators
One for-loop 3D traversal with arithmetic operators


In this example, a 3D array <i>A</i> is defined, which represents a multi-dimensional structure containing strings and numbers. The code then initializes several variables, including <i>t</i> (a string for storing the result), <i>s</i> (the number of matrices or “layers” in <i>A</i>), <i>m</i> (the number of rows in each matrix), <i>n</i> (the number of columns in each matrix), and <i>i</i>, <i>j</i>, <i>d</i>, and <i>k</i> as iteration and indexing variables. A loop runs from 0 to <i>q</i>, where <i>q</i> is calculated as the product of <i>n</i> (number of columns), <i>m</i> (number of rows), and <i>s</i> (number of matrices), which effectively iterates through all elements in the 3D array <i>A</i>. Within the loop, the code calculates <i>k</i> as the modulo of <i>v</i> divided by the product of <i>m</i> and <i>n</i>. Variable <i>j</i> is calculated as the modulo of <i>v</i> divided by <i>n</i>, <i>i</i> is calculated as (<i>k</i> - <i>j</i>) divided by <i>n</i>, and <i>d</i> is calculated as (<i>v</i> - <i>k</i>) divided by the product of <i>m</i> and <i>n</i>. These calculations help determine the current position within the 3D array <i>A</i>. The code appends information to the <i>t</i> string for each iteration, showing the current index <i>v</i> and the corresponding value in the <i>A</i> array at the position [<i>d</i>][<i>i</i>][<i>j</i>]. A line break is also added to separate the entries. At the end of the loop, the code prints the contents of the t string. Thus, this code iterates over the entire 3D array <i>A</i> and prints the indices <i>d</i>, <i>i</i>, <i>j</i>, and the corresponding element from the array, effectively displaying the entire content of the 3D array with their indices. Nevertheless, the novelty here is represented by the way variables <i>i</i>, <i>j</i>, and <i>d</i> are computed in order to iterate over the elements of the 3D array <i>A</i>:


We define $k = v \% (m \times n)$, $j = v \% n$, $i = \frac{(k-j)}{n}$, and $d = \frac{(v-k)}{(m \times n)}$.


Namely, variable <i>k</i> represents the position within a matrix (subarray), and variable <i>i</i> is calculated as (<i>k</i> - <i>j</i>) / <i>n</i> (integer division by using the Python operator: “//”), which is the result of integer division between <i>k</i> - <i>j</i> and the number of columns <i>n</i>. Thus, it calculates the row index within the current matrix. Variable <i>j</i> is calculated as the remainder of <i>v</i> divided by the number of columns <i>n</i> (<i>j</i> = <i>v</i> % <i>n</i>). This gives us the column index within the current matrix. Variable <i>d</i> is calculated as (<i>v</i> - <i>k</i>) / (<i>m</i> × <i>n</i>), which is the result of integer division between (<i>v</i> - <i>k</i>) and the total number of elements in a matrix (<i>m</i> × <i>n</i>). Thus, it calculates the index of the current matrix in the 3D array.
